Exhibit 3.42

SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED

LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT

OF

QUALITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES RICHMOND
II, LLC

THIS SECOND
AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT (together with the schedules attached hereto, this "Agreement")
of Quality Technology Services Richmond II, LLC (the "Company"), is entered into as of the 17th day of
December, 2014, by Quality Technology Services Holding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as the sole equity member (the
"Member"), and Chad L. Williams ("Springing Member 1") and Norma J. Williams ("Springing Member 2"),
as the Springing Members (as defined on Schedule A hereto). Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein have
the meanings set forth on Schedule A hereto.

WHEREAS,
the Certificate of Formation of the Company was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on July 14, 2010 (as
amended and restated from time to time, the "Certificate of Formation"), pursuant to and in accordance with
the provisions of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (6 Del. C. § 18-101, et seq.), as amended from time to time
(the "Act");

WHEREAS, Springing
Member 1 and Springing Member 2 are executing this Agreement in order to comply with Section 5(c) of this Agreement;

WHEREAS, the Company
is governed by that certain First Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2012, (the
"Existing Agreement"); and

WHEREAS, the Member
wishes to make certain amendments to and to restate the Existing Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE, by executing
this Agreement, the Member hereby adopts this Agreement to set forth the terms governing the affairs of the Company, the conduct
of its business and certain rights and obligations of the Member and the Springing Members with respect to the Company, and the
Member, Springing Member 1 and Springing Member 2 hereby agree as follows:

Section 1. Name.

The name of
the limited liability company continued hereby is Quality Technology Services Richmond II, LLC.

Section 2. Principal Business Office.

The principal business
office of the Company shall be located at 12851 Foster Street, Suite 205, Overland Park, Kansas 66213, or such other location as
may hereafter be determined by the Member.

Section 3. Registered Office.

The address of the
registered office of the Company in the State of Delaware is c/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19808.

Section 4. Registered Agent.

The name and address
of the registered agent of the Company for service of process on the Company in the State of Delaware is Corporation Service Company,
2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19808.

Section 5. Members.

(a) The name and
mailing address of the Member are set forth on Schedule B attached hereto. The Member shall continue as a member of the
Company upon its execution of a counterpart signature page to this Agreement.

(b) Subject to Section
9(j), the Member may act by written consent.

(c) Upon
the occurrence of any event that causes the Member to cease to be a member of the Company (other than (i) upon an assignment by
the Member of all of its limited liability company interest in the Company and the admission of the transferee pursuant to Sections
21 and 23, or (ii) the resignation of the Member and the admission of an additional member of the Company pursuant to Sections
22 and 23) (a "Member Cessation Event"), Springing Member 1 shall, without any action of any Person and
simultaneously with the Member Cessation Event, automatically be admitted to the Company as a Special Member and shall continue
the Company without dissolution. If, however, at the time of a Member Cessation Event, Springing Member 1 has died or is otherwise
no longer able to step into the role of Special Member, then in such event, Springing Member 2 shall, without any action of any
Person and simultaneously with the Member Cessation Event, automatically be admitted to the Company as Special Member and shall
continue the Company without dissolution. It is the intent of these provisions that the Company never have more than one Special
Member at any particular point in time. No Special Member may resign from the Company or transfer its rights as Special Member
unless a successor Special Member has been admitted to the Company as Special Member by executing a counterpart to this Agreement.
The Special Member shall automatically cease to be a member of the Company upon the admission to the Company of a substitute Member.
The Special Member shall be a member of the Company that has no interest in the profits, losses and capital of the Company and
has no right to receive any distributions of Company assets. Pursuant to Section 18-301 of the Act, a Special Member shall not
be required to make any capital contributions to the Company and shall not receive a limited liability company interest in the
Company. A Special Member, in its capacity as Special Member, may not bind the Company. Except as required by any mandatory provision
of the Act, a Special Member, in its capacity as Special Member, shall have no right to vote on, approve or otherwise consent
to any action by, or matter relating to, the Company, including, without limitation, the merger, consolidation or conversion of
the Company. In order to implement the admission to the Company of the Special Member, each of Springing Member 1 and Springing
Member 2 shall execute a counterpart to this Agreement. Prior to its admission to the Company as Special Member, each person acting
as Springing Member 1 or Springing Member 2 shall not be a member of the Company.

(d) The Company
shall at all times have a Springing Member 1 and a Springing Member 2. No resignation or removal of a Springing Member, and no
appointment of a successor Springing Member, shall be effective unless and until such successor shall have executed a counterpart
to this Agreement. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Springing Member 1 or Springing Member 2, the Member shall, as
soon as practicable, appoint a successor Springing Member to fill such vacancy. By signing this Agreement, a Springing Member agrees
that, should such Springing Member become a Special Member, such Springing Member will be subject to and bound by the provisions
of this Agreement applicable to a Special Member.

- 2 -

Section 6. Certificates.

Shirley E.
Goza was designated as an "authorized person" of the Company within the meaning of the Act, and has executed, delivered
and filed the Certificate of Formation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. Upon the Member's execution
of a counterpart signature page to the original version of this Agreement on November , 2010, Shirley
E. Goza's powers as an "authorized person" of the Company ceased, and the Member thereupon became the designated
"authorized person" of the Company within the meaning of the Act. The Member or an Officer shall execute, deliver and
file any other certificates (and any amendments and/or restatements thereof) necessary for the Company to qualify to do business
in the State of Virginia and in any other jurisdiction in which the Company may wish to conduct business.

The existence of the
Company as a separate legal entity shall continue until cancellation of the Certificate of Formation as provided in the Act.

Section 7. Purposes.

(a) Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Agreement or in any other document governing the formation, management or operation of the Company
(but subject to Section 9(j)), the sole purpose to be conducted or promoted by the Company is to engage in the following
activities:

(i) to acquire, own, hold, lease, sublease, operate, manage, maintain, develop
and improve the real property described in the Loan Documents (the "Property"), and to provide services to tenants,
licensees and other users of the Property related to the operation of the Property as a data center facility;

(ii) to acquire, own, lease, sublease, hold, operate and maintain its equipment
and other personal property (the "Personal Property");

(iii) to enter into and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents;

(iv) to sell, transfer, service, convey, dispose of, pledge, assign, borrow money
against, finance, refinance or otherwise deal with the Property to the extent permitted under the Loan Documents; and

(v) to engage in any lawful act or activity and to exercise any powers permitted to limited liability
companies organized under the laws of the State of Delaware that are related or incidental to and necessary, convenient or advisable
for the accomplishment of the above-mentioned purposes.

(b) The
Company, and the Member or any Director or Officer on behalf of the Company, may enter into and perform the Company's obligations
under the Basic Documents and all documents, agreements, certificates, or financing statements contemplated thereby or related
thereto, including, without limitation, any interest rate swaps or other form of hedging arrangement associated with the Loan,
all without any further act, vote or approval of any Member, Director, Officer or other Person notwithstanding any other provision
of this Agreement (but subject to Section 9(j)), the Act or applicable law, rule or regulation. The foregoing authorization
shall not be deemed a restriction on the powers of the Member or any Director or Officer to enter into other agreements on behalf
of the Company.

Section 8. Powers.

Subject to Sections
9(b) and 9(j), the Company, and the Board of Directors and the Officers of the Company on behalf of the Company, (i) shall
have and exercise all powers necessary, convenient or incidental to accomplish its purposes as set forth in Section 7 and
(ii) shall have and exercise all of the powers and rights conferred upon limited liability companies formed pursuant to the Act.

- 3 -

Section 9. Management.

(a) Board
of Directors. Subject to Sections 9(b) and 9(j), the business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under
the direction of a Board of one or more Directors designated by the Member. Subject to Section 10, the Member may determine
at any time in its sole and absolute discretion the number of Directors to constitute the Board. The authorized number of Directors
may be increased or decreased by the Member at any time in its sole and absolute discretion, upon notice to all Directors, and
subject in all cases to Section 10. The initial number of Directors shall be three, of which two shall be Independent Directors
pursuant to Section 10. Each Director elected, designated or appointed by the Member shall hold office until a successor
is elected and qualified or until such Director's earlier death, resignation, expulsion or removal. Each Director shall execute
and deliver the Management Agreement. Directors need not be a Member. The initial Directors designated by the Member are listed
on Schedule D hereto.

(b) Powers.
Subject to Section 9(j), the Board of Directors shall have the power
to do any and all acts necessary, convenient or incidental to or for the furtherance of the purposes described herein, including
all powers, statutory or otherwise; provided, however, all right, power and authority of the Independent Directors
shall be limited to those matters for which the consent of the Independent Directors is required under Section 9(j)(iii).
Subject to Section 7, the Board of Directors has the authority to bind the Company.

(c) Meeting of
the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of the Company may hold meetings, both regular and special, within or outside
the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board may be held without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time
to time be determined by the Board. Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chief Executive Officer on not less than
one day's notice to each Director entitled to vote on the subject matter of the meeting by telephone, facsimile, mail, telegram
or any other means of communication, and special meetings shall be called by the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary in like manner
and with like notice upon the written request of any one or more of the Directors entitled to vote on the subject matter of the
meeting.

(d) Quorum;
Acts of the Board. At all meetings of the Board, a majority of the Directors entitled to vote on the subject matter of
the meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, except as otherwise provided in any other
provision of this Agreement, the act of a majority of the Directors entitled to vote on the subject matter of the meeting
present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board. If a quorum shall not be present at any
meeting of the Board, the Directors present at such meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other
than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any
meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as
the case may be, entitled to vote on the subject matter of the action considered consent thereto in writing, and the writing
or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee, as the case may be. Subject to Section
9(j)(iii), in event of any deadlock with regard to a decision of the Board, the final vote of Chad L. Williams shall control.

(e) Electronic
Communications. Members of the Board, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in meetings of the Board, or
any committee, by means of telephone conference or similar communications equipment that allows all Persons participating in the
meeting to hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in Person at the meeting. If all the
participants are participating by telephone conference or similar communications equipment, the meeting shall be deemed to be held
at the principal place of business of the Company.

- 4 -

(f) Committees of Directors.

(i) The Board may, by resolution passed
by a majority of the whole Board (other than the Independent Directors, subject to Section
9(j)(iii)), designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or
more of the Directors of the Company. The Board may designate one or more Directors as
alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member
at any meeting of the committee.

(ii) In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee,
the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such members constitute
a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified
member.

(iii) Any such committee, to the extent
provided in the resolution of the Board, and subject to, in all cases, Sections 9(j)
and 10, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in
the management of the business and affairs of the Company. Such committee or committees
shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted
by the Board. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the
same to the Board when required.

(g) Compensation
of Directors; Expenses. The Board shall have the authority to fix the compensation of Directors. The Directors may be paid
their expenses, if any, of attendance at meetings of the Board, which may be a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the
Board or a stated salary as Director. No such payment shall preclude any Director from serving the Company in any other capacity
and receiving compensation therefor, Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee
meetings.

(h) Removal of
Directors. Unless otherwise restricted by law, any Director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed or expelled, with
or without cause, at any time by the Member, and, subject to Section 10, any vacancy caused by any such removal or expulsion
may be filled by action of the Member.

(i) Directors
as Agents. To the extent of their powers set forth in this Agreement and subject to Section 9(j), the Directors are
agents of the Company for the purpose of the Company's business, and the actions of the Directors taken in accordance with such
powers set forth in this Agreement shall bind the Company. Notwithstanding the last sentence of Section 18-402 of the Act, except
as provided in this Agreement or in a resolution of the Directors, a Director may not bind the Company.

(j) Limitations
on the Company's Activities.

(i) This Section 9(j) is being adopted to comply with certain provisions necessary to qualify
the Company as a "special purpose" entity.

- 5 -

(ii)
Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Agreement or in any other document governing the formation, management or operation of the Company,
for so long as any Obligation is outstanding, neither the Member nor the Company shall amend, alter, change any of Sections
1, 5(b), 5(c), 5(d), 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 16, 20(b),
20(f), 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31,
32, 35, Exhibit A or Schedule A of this Agreement (to the extent that the terms defined in Schedule
A are used in any of the foregoing sections) (the "Special Purpose Provisions"), or any other provision
of this or any other document governing the formation, management or operation of the Company in a manner that is inconsistent
with any of the Special Purpose Provisions, unless the Lender Agent consents in writing, Subject to this Section 9(j),
the Member reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provisions contained in this Agreement in accordance with
Section 32. In the event of any conflict between any of the Special Purpose Provisions and any other provision of this
or any other document governing the formation, management or operation of the Company, the Special Purpose Provisions shall
control.

(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any other document governing the formation,
management or operation of the Company, and notwithstanding any provision of law that otherwise so empowers the Company, the Member,
the Board, any Officer or any other Person, in addition to any other limitations set forth in this Agreement, neither the Member
nor the Board nor any Officer nor any other Person shall be authorized or empowered, nor shall they permit the Company to, and
the Company shall not, without the prior unanimous written consent of the Member and the Board (including all Independent Directors),
take any Material Action, provided, however, that the Board may not vote on, or authorize the taking of, any Material
Action, unless there are at least two Independent Directors then serving in such capacity.

(iv) The Board and the Member shall cause the Company to do or cause to be done all things necessary
to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises. Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Agreement or in any other document governing the formation, management or operation of the Company, the
Board also shall cause the Company to and the Company shall:

(A) maintain its books, records and bank accounts separate from those of any other Person other than
QTLP;

(B) at all times hold itself out to the public and all other Persons as a legal entity separate from
the Member and from any other Person;

(C) have its own Board of Directors;

(D) file its own tax returns separate from those of any other Person, except to the extent that the
Company is treated as a "disregarded entity" for tax purposes and is not required to file tax returns under applicable
law, and pay any taxes required to be paid under applicable law;

- 6 -

(E) not commingle its assets with assets of any other Person other than a Borrower or QTLP and only
to the extent required under the Loan Documents;

(F) conduct its business only in its own name and comply with all organizational formalities necessary
to maintain its separate existence, except as otherwise expressly required under the Loan Documents or consented to in writing
by the Lender Agent;

(G) maintain separate financial statements,
showing its assets and liabilities separate and apart from those of any other Person
and not have its assets listed on any financial statement of any other Person; provided, however,
that the Company's assets may be included in a consolidated financial statement of its
Affiliate provided that such assets shall also be listed on the Company's own separate
balance sheet;

(H) pay its own liabilities and expenses only out of its own funds or the funds of QTLP;

(I) except for capital contributions or capital distributions permitted under the terms and conditions
of this Agreement and properly reflected on the books and records of the Company, not enter into any transaction with an Affiliate
of the Company except on commercially reasonable terms similar to those available to unaffiliated parties in an arm's-length transaction,
except (i) as expressly permitted under the Loan Documents and not otherwise prohibited by the Loan Documents, or (ii) as consented
to by the Lender Agent;

(J) maintain a sufficient number of employees in light of its contemplated business purpose and pay
the salaries of its own employees, if any, only from its own funds;

(K) except as permitted by the Loan Documents, not hold out its credit or assets as being available
to satisfy the obligations of any other Person;

(L) allocate fairly and reasonably any overhead expenses that are shared with an affiliate, including
for shared office space and for services performed by an employee of an affiliate;

(M) use separate stationery, invoices and checks bearing its own name or the name of QTLP;

(N) not pledge its assets to secure the obligations of any other Person except with respect to the
Obligations under the Loan Documents and the Hedge Obligations;

(O) correct any known misunderstanding regarding its separate identity and not identify itself as a
department or division of any other Person;

(P) maintain adequate capital in light
of its contemplated business purpose, transactions and liabilities; provided, however,
that the foregoing shall not require the Member to make additional capital contributions
to the Company;

- 7 -

(Q) cause its Board of Directors to meet at least annually or act pursuant to written consent and keep
minutes of such meetings and actions and observe all other Delaware limited liability company formalities;

(R) not acquire any obligation or securities of the Member or of any Affiliate of the Company, except
(i) as expressly permitted under the Loan Documents and not otherwise prohibited by the Loan Documents, or (ii) as consented to
by the Lender Agent;

(S) cause the Directors, Officers, agents and other representatives of the Company to act at all times
with respect to the Company consistently and in furtherance of the foregoing and in the best interests of the Company; and

(T) compensate each of its consultants
and agents from its funds for services provided to it and pay from its own assets all
obligations of any kind incurred; provided, however, that this provision
shall not require the Member to make any additional capital contributions to the Company.

Failure of the Company,
or the Member or Board on behalf of the Company, to comply with any of the foregoing covenants or any other covenants contained
in this Agreement shall not affect the status of the Company as a separate legal entity or the limited liability of the Member
or the Directors.

(v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or in any other document governing the
formation, management or operation of the Company, the Board shall not cause or permit the Company to and the Company shall not:

(A) guarantee any obligation of any Person, including any Affiliate or become obligated for the debts
of any other Person or hold out its credit as being available to pay the obligations of any other Person, except (i) pursuant to
the Loan Documents and the Hedge Obligations and (ii) as otherwise permitted by the Loan Documents;

(B) engage, directly or indirectly,
in any business other than as required or permitted to be performed under Section
7, the Basic Documents or this Section 9(j);

(C) incur, create or assume any indebtedness or liabilities other than (i) indebtedness and liabilities incurred
in the ordinary course of its business that are related to the operation of the Property and the provision of services to tenants,
licensees and other users of the Property in connection with the operation of the Property as a data center facility or associated
with the ownership or lease of the Personal Property and are expressly permitted under the Loan Documents and (ii) as otherwise
permitted by the Loan Documents;

- 8 -

(D) make or permit to remain outstanding any loan or advance to, or own or acquire any stock or securities
of, any Person, except that the Company may invest in those investments permitted under the Loan Documents and may make any advance
required or expressly permitted to be made pursuant to any provisions of the Loan Documents and permit the same to remain outstanding
in accordance with such provisions;

(E) to the fullest extent permitted by law, engage in any dissolution, liquidation, consolidation,
merger, sale or transfer of substantially all of its assets other than such activities as are expressly permitted pursuant to the
Loan Documents;

(F) buy or hold evidence of indebtedness issued by any other Person (other than cash or investment-grade
securities);

(G) form, acquire or hold any subsidiary (whether corporate, partnership, limited liability company
or other) or own any equity interest in any other entity;

(H) own any asset or property other than its interest in the Property, incidental personal property necessary
for the operation of the Property, and the Personal Property; or

(I) permit any Affiliate or constituent party independent access to the Company's bank accounts, except
(i) as expressly permitted under the Loan Documents and not otherwise prohibited by the Loan Documents, or (ii) as consented to
by the Lender Agent.

Section 10. Independent Director.

As long as any Obligation
is outstanding, the Member shall cause the Company at all times to have at least two Independent Directors who will be appointed
by the Member. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Independent Directors shall not have any right,
power or authority with respect to the management or operations of the Company except as expressly provided in Section 9(j)(iii).
To the fullest extent permitted by law, including Section 18-1101(c) of the Act, the Independent Directors shall consider only
the interests of the Company and its creditors in acting or otherwise voting on the matters referred to in Section 9(j)(iii),
No resignation or removal of an Independent Director, and no appointment of a successor Independent Director, shall be effective
until such successor shall have accepted his or her appointment as an Independent Director by a written instrument, which may
be a counterpart signature page to the Management Agreement. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Independent Director,
the Member shall, as soon as practicable, appoint a successor Independent Director. All right, power and authority of the Independent
Directors shall be limited to the extent necessary to exercise those rights and perform those duties specifically set forth in
this Agreement. Except as provided in the third sentence of this Section 10, in exercising its rights and performing its
duties under this Agreement, any Independent Director shall have a fiduciary duty of loyalty and care similar to that of a director
of a business corporation organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. No Independent Director shall
at any time serve as trustee in bankruptcy for any Affiliate of the Company.

- 9 -

Section 11. Officers.

(a) Officers.
The initial Officers of the Company shall be designated by the Member. The additional or successor Officers of the Company shall
be chosen by the Board and shall consist of at least a Chief Executive Officer, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors
may also choose one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers. Any number of offices may be held
by the same person. The Board may appoint such other Officers and agents as it shall deem necessary or advisable who shall hold
their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by
the Board. The salaries of all Officers and agents of the Company shall be fixed by or in the manner prescribed by the Board. The
Officers of the Company shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified. Any Officer may be removed at any time,
with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Company shall
be filled by the Board. The initial Officers of the Company designated by the Member are listed on Schedule E hereto.

(b) Chief
Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive officer of the Company, shall preside at all meetings
of the Board, shall be responsible for the general and active management of the business of the Company and shall see that all
orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer or any other Officer authorized by the
Chief Executive Officer or the Board shall execute all bonds, mortgages and other contracts, except: (i) where required or permitted
by law or this Agreement to be otherwise signed and executed, including Section 7(b); (ii) where signing and execution
thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board to some other Officer or agent of the Company; and (iii) as otherwise permitted
in Section 11(c).

(c) Vice President.
In the absence of the Chief Executive Officer or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer's inability to act, the Vice President,
if any (or in the event there be more than one Vice President, the Vice Presidents in the order designated by the Directors, or
in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election), shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer,
and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. The Vice
Presidents, if any, shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.

(d) Secretary
and Assistant Secretary. The Secretary shall be responsible for filing legal documents and maintaining records for the Company,
The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board and record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Company and of the Board
in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary shall
give, or shall cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the Member, if any, and special meetings of the Board, and shall perform
such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall
serve. The Assistant Secretary, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board (or
if there be no such determination, then in order of their election), shall, in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of
the Secretary's inability to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties
and have such other powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.

(e) Treasurer
and Assistant Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the Company funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate
accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Company and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects
in the name and to the credit of the Company in such depositories as may be designated by the Board. The Treasurer shall disburse
the funds of the Company as may be ordered by the Board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the
Chief Executive Officer and to the Board, at its regular meetings or when the Board so requires, an account of all of the Treasurer's
transactions and of the financial condition of the Company. The Assistant Treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant
Treasurers in the order determined by the Board (or if there be no such determination, then in the order of their election), shall,
in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's inability to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers
of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.

- 10 -

(f) Officers
as Agents. The Officers, to the extent of their powers set forth in this Agreement or otherwise vested in them by action of
the Board not inconsistent with this Agreement, are agents of the Company for the purpose of the Company's business and, subject
to Section 9(j), the actions of the Officers taken in accordance with such powers shall bind the Company.

(g) Duties of
Board and Officers. Except to the extent otherwise provided herein, each Director and Officer shall have a fiduciary duty
of loyalty and care similar to that of directors and officers of business corporations organized under the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware.

Section 12. Limited Liability.

Except as otherwise
expressly provided by the Act, the debts, obligations and liabilities of the Company, whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise,
shall be the debts, obligations and liabilities solely of the Company, and none of the Member, the Special Member or any Director
shall be obligated personally for any such debt, obligation or liability of the Company solely by reason of being a Member, Special
Member or Director of the Company.

Section 13. Capital Contributions.

The Member has contributed
or is deemed to have contributed to the Company the amount set forth on Schedule B attached hereto. In accordance with
Section 5(c), the Special Member shall not be required to make any capital contributions to the Company.

Section 14. Additional Contributions,

The Member is not required
to make any additional capital contribution to the Company. However, the Member may make additional capital contributions to the
Company at any time upon the written consent of such Member. To the extent that the Member makes an additional capital contribution
to the Company, the Member shall revise Schedule B of this Agreement. The Member and the Special Member shall not have any
duty or obligation to any creditor of the Company to make any contribution to the Company or to issue any call for capital pursuant
to this Agreement.

Section 15. Allocation of Profits and Losses.

The Company's profits
and losses shall be allocated to the Member.

Section 16. Distributions.

(a) Distributions
of capital shall be made to the Member at the times and in the aggregate amounts determined by the Board. Notwithstanding any provision
to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company shall not make a distribution of capital to the Member on account of its
interest in the Company if such distribution would violate Section 18-607 of the Act or any other applicable law or any Basic Document
or would constitute a default under the Loan Documents.

(b) Any payments
made pursuant to the Loan Documents to or for the benefit of the Member shall constitute distributions to or at the direction of
the Member.

- 11 -

Section 17. Books and Records.

The Board shall keep
or cause to be kept complete and accurate books of account and records with respect to the Company's business. The books of the
Company shall at all times be maintained by the Board. The Member and its duly authorized representatives shall have the right
to examine the Company books, records and documents during normal business hours. The Company, and the Board on behalf of the Company,
shall not have the right to keep confidential from the Member any information that the Board would otherwise be permitted to keep
confidential from the Member pursuant to Section 18-305(c) of the Act. The Company's books of account shall be kept using the method
of accounting determined by the Member. The Company's independent auditor, if any, shall be an independent public accounting firm
selected by the Member,

Section 18. Reports.

(a) Within 60 days
after the end of each fiscal quarter, the Board shall cause to be prepared an unaudited report setting forth as of the end of such
fiscal quarter:

(i) unless such quarter is the last fiscal quarter, a balance sheet of the Company; and

(ii) unless such quarter is the last fiscal quarter, an income statement of the Company for such fiscal quarter.

(b) The Board shall
use diligent efforts to cause to be prepared and mailed to the Member, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an audited
or unaudited report setting forth as of the end of such fiscal year:

(i) a balance sheet of the Company;

(ii) an income statement of the Company for such fiscal year; and

(iii) a statement of the Member's capital account.

(c) The Board shall,
after the end of each fiscal year, use reasonable efforts to cause the Company's independent accountants, if any, to prepare and
transmit to the Member as promptly as possible any such tax information as may be reasonably necessary to enable the Member to
prepare its federal, state and local income tax returns relating to such fiscal year.

Section 19. Other Business.

The Member, the Special
Member and any Affiliate of the Member or the Special Member may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures (unconnected
with the Company) of every kind and description, independently or with others notwithstanding any provision to the contrary at
law or at equity. The Company shall not have any rights in or to such independent ventures or the income or profits therefrom by
virtue of this Agreement.

Section 20. Exculpation and Indemnification.

(a) None of the
Member, the Special Member, any Officer, Director, employee or agent of the Company, or any employee, representative, agent or
Affiliate of the Member or the Special Member (collectively, the "Covered Persons") shall, to the fullest extent
permitted by law, be liable to the Company or any other Person that is a party to or is otherwise bound by this Agreement, for
any loss, damage or claim incurred by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in good faith on
behalf of the Company and in a manner reasonably believed to be within the scope of the authority conferred on such Covered Person
by this Agreement, except that a Covered Person shall be liable for any such loss, damage or claim incurred by reason of such Covered
Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct.

- 12 -

(b) To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, a Covered Person shall be entitled to indemnification from the Company for any loss, damage
or claim incurred by such Covered Person by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in good faith
on behalf of the Company and in a manner reasonably believed to be within the scope of the authority conferred on such Covered
Person by this Agreement, except that no Covered Person shall be entitled to be indemnified in respect of any loss, damage or claim
incurred by such Covered Person by reason of such Covered Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct with respect to such
acts or omissions; provided, however, that any indemnity under this Section 20 by the Company shall be provided
out of and to the extent of Company assets only, and the Member and the Special Member shall not have personal liability on account
thereof; and provided further, that so long as any Obligation is outstanding, no indemnity payment from funds of the Company
(as distinct from funds from other sources, such as insurance) of any indemnity under this Section 20 shall be payable from
amounts allocable to any other Person pursuant to the Basic Documents.

(c) To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, expenses (including legal fees) incurred by a Covered Person defending any claim, demand, action,
suit or proceeding shall, from time to time, be advanced by the Company prior to the final disposition of such claim, demand, action,
suit or proceeding upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Covered Person to repay such amount if
it shall be determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized in this Section 20.

(d) A Covered Person
shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Company and upon such information, opinions, reports
or statements presented to the Company by any Person as to matters the Covered Person reasonably believes are within such other
Person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Company, including
information, opinions, reports or statements as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities, or any other facts pertinent
to the existence and amount of assets from which distributions to the Member might properly be paid.

(e) To the extent
that, at law or in equity, a Covered Person has duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities relating thereto to the Company
or to any other Covered Person, a Covered Person acting under this Agreement shall not be liable to the Company or to any other
Covered Person for its good faith reliance on the provisions of this Agreement or any approval or authorization granted by the
Company or any other Covered Person. The provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities
of a Covered Person otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Member, the Directors, the Springing Members and
the Special Member to replace such other duties and liabilities of such Covered Person.

(f) Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions, any indemnification set forth herein shall be fully subordinate to the Loan and, to the fullest extent
permitted by law, shall not constitute a claim against the Company in the event that the Company's cash flow is insufficient to
pay all its obligations to creditors.

(g) The foregoing
provisions of this Section 20 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

- 13 -

Section 21. Assignments.

(a) Subject
to Section 23 and any transfer restrictions contained in the Loan Documents, the Member may assign its limited liability
company interest in the Company. No Member may transfer all or any portion of its interest in the Company if such transfer may
cause the assets of the Company to become "plan assets" for purposes of Title I of ERISA or Section 4975 of the U.S.
Department of Labor Regulation 29 C.F.R. Section 2510.3101. Subject to Section 23, if the Member transfers all of its limited
liability company interest in the Company pursuant to this Section 21, the transferee shall be admitted to the Company
as a member of the Company upon its execution of an instrument signifying its agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, which instrument may be a counterpart signature page to this Agreement. Such admission shall be deemed effective
immediately prior to the transfer and, immediately following such admission, the transferor Member shall cease to be a member
of the Company. Any successor to a Member by merger or consolidation in compliance with the Basic Documents shall, without further
act, be the Member hereunder, and such merger or consolidation shall not constitute an assignment for purposes of this Agreement
and the Company shall continue without dissolution.

(b) Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement for so long as any Obligation remains outstanding, the Company shall always
have one and only one member.

Section 22. Resignation.

So long as any Obligation
is outstanding, the Member may not resign, except as permitted under the Basic Documents and if the Lender Agent consents in writing
and if an additional member is admitted to the Company pursuant to Section 23. If the Member is permitted to resign pursuant
to this Section 22, an additional member of the Company shall be admitted to the Company, subject to Section 23,
upon its execution of an instrument signifying its agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, which
instrument may be a counterpart signature page to this Agreement, Such admission shall be deemed effective immediately prior to
the resignation and, immediately following such admission, the resigning Member shall cease to be a member of the Company,

Section 23. Admission of Additional Members and Transfers of Indirect
Interests.

One or
more additional members of the Company may be admitted to the Company with the written consent of the Member; provided, however,
that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no additional Member may be admitted to the Company other than pursuant to Section
24(a) or Section 5(c), and no transfer of any direct or indirect interest in the Company may be made that
results in a Change in Control of the Company, except as may be expressly provided otherwise in the Loan Documents, unless
(1), an acceptable nonconsolidation opinion is delivered to the Lender Agent concerning, as applicable, the Company, the
new transferee and/or their respective owners, and (2) the Lender Agent consents in writing.

- 14 -

Section 24. Dissolution.

(a) The
Company shall be dissolved, and its affairs shall be wound up upon the first to occur of the following: (i) the termination of
the legal existence of the last remaining member of the Company or the occurrence of any other event which terminates the continued
membership of the last remaining member of the Company in the Company unless the Company is continued without dissolution in a
manner required under Section 5(c) or this Section 24(a) or permitted by this Agreement or the Act
or (ii) the entry of a decree of judicial dissolution under Section 18-802 of the Act. Upon the occurrence of any event that causes
the last remaining member of the Company to cease to be a member of the Company or that causes the Member to cease to be a member
of the Company (other than (i) upon an assignment by the Member of all of its limited liability company interest in the Company
and the admission of the transferee pursuant to Sections 21 and 23, or (ii) the resignation of the Member and the admission
of an additional member of the Company pursuant to Sections 22 and 23), to the fullest extent permitted by law, the personal
representative of such member is hereby authorized to, and shall, within 90 days after the occurrence of the event that terminated
the continued membership of such member in the Company, agree in writing (i) to continue the Company and (ii) to the admission
of the personal representative or its nominee or designee, as the case may be, as a substitute member of the Company, effective
as of the occurrence of the event that terminated the continued membership of such member in the Company.

(b) Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Agreement, the Bankruptcy of the Member or a Special Member or any additional member shall not cause
the Member or Special Member or additional member, respectively, to cease to be a member of the Company and upon the occurrence
of such an event, the Company shall continue without dissolution.

(c) Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Agreement, each of the Member, the Special Member and any additional member waives any right it might
have to agree in writing to dissolve the Company upon the Bankruptcy of the Member, Special Member or additional member, or the
occurrence of an event that causes the Member, Special Member or additional member to cease to be a member of the Company.

(d) In the event
of dissolution, the Company shall conduct only such activities as are necessary to wind up its affairs (including the sale of the
assets of the Company in an orderly manner), and the assets of the Company shall be applied in the manner, and in the order of
priority, set forth in Section 18-804 of the Act.

(e) The Company
shall terminate when (i) all of the assets of the Company, after payment of or due provision for all debts, liabilities and obligations
of the Company, shall have been distributed to the Member in the manner provided for in this Agreement and (ii) the Certificate
of Formation shall have been canceled in the manner required by the Act.

Section 25. Waiver of Partition; Nature of Interest.

To the fullest extent
permitted by law, each of the Member, the Special Member, the Springing Members, and any additional member admitted to the Company
hereby irrevocably waives any right or power that such Person might have to cause the Company or any of its assets to be partitioned,
to cause the appointment of a receiver for all or any portion of the assets of the Company, to compel any sale of all or any portion
of the assets of the Company pursuant to any applicable law or to file a complaint or to institute any proceeding at law or in
equity to cause the dissolution, liquidation, winding up or termination of the Company. The Member shall not have any interest
in any specific assets of the Company, and the Member shall not have the status of a creditor with respect to any distribution
pursuant to Section 16 hereof. The interest of the Member in the Company is personal property.

Section 26. Tax Status.

It is intended that
the Company shall be a disregarded entity for federal, state, and local income tax purposes.

- 15 -

Section 27. Benefits of Agreement; No Third-Party Rights.

Except for the Lender Agent, its successors
or assigns as holders of the Loan with respect to the Special Purpose Provisions, (1) none of the provisions of this Agreement
shall be for the benefit of or enforceable by any creditor of the Company or by any creditor of the Member or a Special Member,
and (2) nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create any right in any Person (other than Covered Persons) not a party hereto,
and this Agreement shall not be construed in any respect to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third Person,
except as provided in Section 30. The Lender Agent, its successors or assigns are intended third-party beneficiaries of
this Agreement and may enforce the Special Purpose Provisions.

Section 28. Severability of Provisions.

Each provision of this
Agreement shall be considered severable and if for any reason any provision or provisions herein are determined to be invalid,
unenforceable or illegal under any existing or future law, such invalidity, unenforceability or illegality shall not impair the
operation of or affect those portions of this Agreement which are valid, enforceable and legal.

Section 29. Entire Agreement.

This Agreement constitutes
the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.

Section 30. Binding Agreement.

The Member agrees that
this Agreement, including, without limitation, the Special Purpose Provisions, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement
of the Member, and is enforceable against the Member by the Independent Directors, in accordance with its terms. In addition, the
Independent Directors shall be intended beneficiaries of this Agreement.

Section 31. Governing Law.

This Agreement shall
be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to conflict of laws principles), all rights
and remedies being governed by said laws.

Section 32. Amendments.

Subject to Section
9(j)(ii), this Agreement may be modified, altered, supplemented or amended pursuant to a written agreement executed and delivered
by the Member. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, so long as any Obligation is outstanding, Sections
1, 5(b), 5(c), 5(d), 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 16, 20(b),
20(f), 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32,
35, Exhibit A and Schedule A to this Agreement may not be modified, altered, supplemented or amended unless
the Lender Agent consents in writing except: (i) to cure any ambiguity, or (ii) to convert or supplement any provision in a manner
consistent with the intent of this Agreement and the other Basic Documents.

Section 33. Counterparts.

This Agreement may
be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original of this Agreement and all of which together
shall constitute one and the same instrument.

- 16 -

Section 34. Notices.

Any notices required
to be delivered hereunder shall be in writing and personally delivered, mailed or sent by telecopy, electronic mail or other similar
form of rapid transmission, and shall be deemed to have been duly given upon receipt (a) in the case of the Company, to the Company
at its address in Section 2, (b) in the case of the Member, to the Member at its address as listed on Schedule B
attached hereto and (c) in the case of either of the foregoing, at such other address as may be designated by written notice to
the other party.

Section 35. Limited
Liability Company Interests and Certificates.

(a) Interests.

Each limited liability
company interest in the Company shall constitute and shall remain a "security" within the meaning of, and shall be
governed by, (i) Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code (including Section 8-102(a)(15) thereof) as in effect from time to time
in the States of Delaware and New York and (ii) the Uniform Commercial Code of any other applicable jurisdiction that now or hereafter
substantially includes the 1994 revisions to Article 8 thereof as adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference
of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Notwithstanding any
provision of this Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with any non-waivable
provision of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of Delaware (6 Del. C. § 8-101, et
seq.) (the "UCC"), such provision of Article 8 of the UCC shall be controlling.

(b) Certificates.

(i) Upon the issuance of limited liability
company interests in the Company to any Person in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, and upon the execution of this Agreement with respect to the Member's
limited liability company interests in the Company owned by it on the date hereof, without
any further act, vote or approval of any Member, Director, Officer or any Person, the
Company shall issue one or more non-negotiable certificates in the name of such Person
substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (a "Certificate"),
which evidences the ownership of the limited liability company interests in the Company
of such Person. Each such Certificate shall be denominated in terms of the percentage
of the limited liability company interests in the Company evidenced by such Certificate
and shall be signed by an Officer on behalf of the Company.

(ii) Without any further act, vote or approval of any Member, Director, Officer or any Person, the Company
shall issue a new Certificate in place of any Certificate previously issued if the holder of the limited liability company interests
in the Company represented by such Certificate, as reflected on the books and records of the Company:

(A) makes proof by affidavit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, that such previously
issued Certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed;

- 17 -

(B) requests the issuance of a new Certificate before the Company has notice that such previously issued
Certificate has been acquired by a purchaser for value in good faith and without notice of an adverse claim;

(C) if requested by the Company, delivers to the Company a bond, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Company, with such surety or sureties as the Company may direct, to indemnify the Company against any claim that may be
made on account of the alleged loss, destruction or theft of the previously issued Certificate; and

(D) satisfies any other reasonable requirements imposed by the Company.

(iii) Upon a Member's transfer in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement of any or all limited
liability company interests in the Company represented by a Certificate, the transferee of such limited liability company interests
in the Company shall deliver such Certificate to the Company for cancellation (executed by such transferee on the reverse side
thereof), and the Company shall thereupon issue a new Certificate to such transferee for the percentage of limited liability company
interests in the Company being transferred and, if applicable, cause to be issued to such Member a new Certificate for that percentage
of limited liability company interests in the Company that were represented by the canceled Certificate and that are not being
transferred.

(c) Registration
of Limited Liability Company Interests. The Company shall maintain books for the purpose of registering the transfer of limited
liability company interests in the Company. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, a transfer of limited
liability company interests in the Company requires delivery of an endorsed Certificate and shall be effective upon registration
of such transfer in the books of the Company.

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

- 18 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the undersigned, intending to be legally bound hereby, have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first set forth above.

MEMBER:

QUALITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

HOLDING, LLC

By:
/s/ Chad L. Williams

Name:
Chad L. Williams

Title:
Chief Executive Officer

SPRINGING MEMBERS

/s/ Chad L.
Williams

Name: Chad L. Williams

Springing Member 1

/s/ Norma J. Williams

Name: Norma J. Williams

Springing Member 2

SCHEDULE A

Definitions

A, Definitions

When used in this Agreement,
the following terms not otherwise defined herein have the following meanings:

"Act"
has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.

"Affiliate"
means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly Controlling or Controlled by or under direct or indirect
common Control with such Person or any Person who has a direct familial relationship, by blood, marriage or otherwise with the
Company or any Affiliate of the Company.

"Agent"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Loan Agreement.

"Agreement"
means this Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company, together with the schedules attached
hereto, as amended, restated or supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

"Bankruptcy"
means, with respect to any Person, (A) if such Person (i) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, (ii) files a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy, (iii) is adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or has entered against it an order for relief, in any bankruptcy
or insolvency proceedings, (iv) files a petition or answer seeking for itself any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment,
liquidation or similar relief under any statute, law or regulation, (v) files an answer or other pleading admitting or failing
to contest the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any proceeding of this nature, or (vi) seeks, consents to
or acquiesces in the appointment of a trustee, receiver or liquidator of the Person or of all or any substantial part of its properties,
or (B) if 120 days after the commencement of any proceeding against the Person seeking reorganization, arrangement, composition,
readjustment, liquidation or similar relief under any statute, law or regulation, if the proceeding has not been dismissed, or
if within 90 days after the appointment without such Person's consent or acquiescence of a trustee, receiver or liquidator of such
Person or of all or any substantial part of its properties, the appointment is not vacated or stayed, or within 90 days after the
expiration of any such stay, the appointment is not vacated. The foregoing definition of "Bankruptcy" is intended to
replace and shall supersede and replace the definition of "Bankruptcy" set forth in Sections 18-101(1) and 18-304 of
the Act.

"Basic Documents"
means this Agreement, the Management Agreement, the Special Services Assistance Agreement, the Special Services and Collection
Agreement, the Loan Documents, and all documents and certificates contemplated thereby or delivered in connection therewith.

"Board"
or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

"Borrowers"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Loan Agreement.

"Certificate
of Formation" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.

"Change in
Control of the Company" means (a) a transfer resulting in a Person that owned less than 49% of the direct or indirect
equity interests in the Company upon the closing of the Loan owning 49% or more of such equity interests after the transfer, (b)
a transfer or transfers after the closing of the Loan that aggregate 49% or more of the direct or indirect equity interests in
the Company or (c) a change in the equity owners that Control the Company.

"Company" means Quality Technology Services Richmond II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company.

"Control"
means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a
Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or general partnership or managing member interests, by contract or
otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" shall have correlative meanings. Without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to Control any other Person in which it owns, directly or indirectly, 49% or more of
the ownership interests.

"Covered Persons"
has the meaning set forth in Section 20(a).

"Directors"
means the Persons elected to the Board of Directors from time to time by the Member, including the Independent Directors, in their
capacity as managers of the Company. A Director is hereby designated as a "manager" of the Company within the meaning
of Section 18-101(10) of the Act.

"ERISA"
means the Federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended and in effect from time to time.

"Hedge Obligations"
shall have the meaning set forth in the Loan Agreement.

"Independent
Director" means a natural person who is not at the time of initial appointment as a director or at any time while serving
as a director or manager of the Company and has not been at any time during the five (5) years preceding such initial appointment:

(a) a stockholder, director (with the exception of serving as an Independent Director of the Company),
officer, trustee, employee, partner, member, attorney or counsel of Company, the Member (with the exception of serving as a Special
Member), or any Affiliate of either of them;

(b) a creditor, customer, supplier, or other person who derives any of its purchases or revenues from
its activities with the Member, the Company or any Affiliate of either of them;

(c) a Person Controlling or under common Control with any Person excluded from serving as Independent
Director under (a) or (b); or

(d) a member of the immediate family by blood or marriage of any Person excluded from serving as Independent
Director under (a) or (b).

A natural person who satisfies the foregoing definition other than subparagraph (b) shall not be disqualified
from serving as an Independent Director of the Company if such individual is an Independent Director provided by a nationally-recognized
company that provides professional independent directors (a "Professional Independent Director") and other corporate
services in the ordinary course of its business. A natural person who otherwise satisfies the foregoing definition other than subparagraph
(a) by reason of being the independent director of a "special purpose entity" affiliated with the Company shall not
be disqualified from serving as an Independent Director of the Company if either (i) such individual is a Professional Independent
Director or (ii) the fees that such individual earns from serving as independent director of affiliates of the Company in any given
year constitute in the aggregate less than five percent (5%) of such individual's annual income for that year. Notwithstanding
the immediately preceding sentence, an Independent Director may not simultaneously serve as Independent Director of the Company
and independent director of a special purpose entity that owns a direct or indirect equity interest in the Company.

A-2

For purposes of this paragraph, a "special
purpose entity" is an entity, whose organizational documents contain restrictions on its activities and impose requirements
intended to preserve such entity's separateness that are substantially similar to the Special Purpose Provisions of this Agreement.

"Lender Agent"
means Regions Bank, in its capacity as administrative agent under the Loan Agreement, together with its successors and assigns,

"Loan"
means those certain revolving loans to be made to the Borrowers in accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of the
Loan Documents.

"Loan Agreement"
means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2012, by and among Borrowers, Lender Agent and the other parties
thereto, as the same may be amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time.

"Loan Documents"
has the meaning set forth in the Loan Agreement.

"Management
Agreement" means the agreement of the Directors in the form attached hereto as Schedule C, The Management Agreement
shall be deemed incorporated into, and a part of, this Agreement.

"Material Action"
means to file any insolvency, or reorganization case or proceeding, to institute proceedings to have the Company be adjudicated
bankrupt or insolvent, to institute proceedings under any applicable insolvency law, to seek any relief under any law relating
to relief from debts or the protection of debtors, to consent to the filing or institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings
against the Company, to file a petition seeking, or consent to, reorganization or relief with respect to the Company under any
applicable federal or state law relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, to seek or consent to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator,
assignee, trustee, sequestrator, custodian, or any similar official of or for the Company or a substantial part of its property,
to make any assignment for the benefit of creditors of the Company, to admit in writing the Company's inability to pay its debts
generally as they become due, or to take action in furtherance of any of the foregoing.

"Member" means Quality Technology Services Holding, LLC, as the member of the Company,
and includes any Person admitted as an additional member of the Company or a substitute member of the Company pursuant to the provisions
of this Agreement, each in its capacity as a member of the Company; provided, however, the term "Member" shall not
include the Special Member or the Springing Members.

"Obligations"
shall mean the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of the Company under or in connection with the Loan Documents.

"Officer"
means an officer of the Company described in Section 11.

"Person" means any individual, corporation,
partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, association, joint stock company, trust,
unincorporated organization, or other organization, whether or not a legal entity, and any governmental authority.

A-3

"Personal
Property" shall have the meaning given thereto in Section 7(a) of this Agreement.

"Property"
shall have the meaning given thereto in Section 7(a) of this Agreement.

"QTLP"
means QualityTech, LP, a Delaware limited partnership.

"Special
Member" means, upon such person's admission to the Company as a member of the Company pursuant to Section
5(c), a person acting as either Springing Member 1 or Springing Member 2, in such person's capacity as a member of
the Company. A Special Member shall only have the rights and duties expressly set forth in this Agreement.

"Special
Purpose Entity" means an entity, whose organizational documents contain restrictions on its purpose and activities and
impose requirements intended to preserve its separateness that are substantially similar to the Special Purpose Provisions of this
Agreement.

"Special
Services Assistance Agreement" means that certain Special Services Assistance Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010,
by and between Quality Technology Services Holding, LLC and Quality Technology Services Richmond, II, LLC.

"Special
Services and Collection Agreement" means that certain Special Services and Collection Agreement, dated as of November
1, 2010; by and between Quality Technology Services Richmond II, LLC and Quality Investment Properties Richmond, LLC

"Springing
Member" means a Person who is not a member of the Company but who has signed this Agreement in order that, upon the
conditions described in Section 5(c), such Person can become the Special Member without any delay in order that at all
time the Company shall have at least one member.

B. Rules of Construction

Definitions in this
Agreement apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms. The words "include" and "including"
shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The terms "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder"
and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section, paragraph or subdivision.
The Section titles appear as a matter of convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement. All Section,
paragraph, clause, Exhibit or Schedule references not attributed to a particular document shall be references to such parts of
this Agreement.

A-4

SCHEDULE B

Member

Name

Mailing
Address

Capital

Contribution

Limited
Liability

Company Interest

Quality Technology Services Holding, LLC

12851 Foster Street Suite
205

Overland Park, KS 66213

$

1,000

100
%

SCHEDULE C

Management Agreement

[---INSERT DATE---]

Quality Technology Services Richmond II, LLC

12851 Foster Street, Suite 205

Overland Park, Kansas 66213

Re: Management Agreement -
Quality Technology Services Richmond II, LLC

Ladies and Gentlemen:

For good and valuable
consideration, each of the undersigned Persons, who have been designated as directors of Quality Technology Services Richmond
II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"), in accordance with the Second Amended
and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company, dated as of December __, 2014, as it may be amended or restated
from time to time (the "LLC Agreement"), hereby agree as follows:

1. Each
of the undersigned accepts such Person's rights and authority as a Director under the LLC Agreement and agrees to perform
and discharge such Person's duties and obligations as a Director under the LLC Agreement, and further agrees that such rights,
authorities, duties and obligations under the LLC Agreement shall continue until such Person's successor as a Director is
designated or until such Person's resignation or removal as a Director in accordance with the LLC Agreement. Each of the
undersigned agrees and acknowledges that it has been designated as a "manager" of the Company within the meaning of
the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act.

2. So long as any
Obligation is outstanding, each of the undersigned agrees, solely in its capacity as a creditor of the Company on account of any
indemnification or other payment owing to the undersigned by the Company, not to acquiesce, petition or otherwise invoke or cause
the Company to invoke the process of any court or governmental authority for the purpose of commencing or sustaining a case against
the Company under any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee,
custodian, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any substantial part of the property of the Company, or ordering
the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company.

3. THIS MANAGEMENT
AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, AND ALL RIGHTS AND REMEDIES
SHALL BE GOVERNED BY SUCH LAWS WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.

Initially capitalized
terms used and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings set forth in the LLC Agreement.

This Management Agreement
may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original of this Management Agreement and all of
which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have
executed this Management Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

Name: Chad L. Williams

Name: Richard F. Klumpp

Name: Thomas M. Strauss

SCHEDULE D

DIRECTORS

1.
Chad L. Williams (Chairman)

2.
Richard F. Klumpp (Independent Director)

3.
Thomas M. Strauss (Independent Director)

SCHEDULE E

OFFICERS

TITLE

Chad L. Williams

Chief Executive Officer

William H. Schaefer

Chief Financial Officer

Shirley E. Goza

Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Jay F, Ketterling

Vice President and Treasurer

Exhibit A

CERTIFICATE FOR LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
INTERESTS IN QUALITY

TECHNOLOGY SERVICES RICHMOND II, LLC

THIS CERTIFICATE HAS NOT BEEN AND
WILL NOT BE REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 OR UNDER THE SECURITIES OR BLUE SKY LAWS OF ANY STATE. THE HOLDER OF THIS
CERTIFICATE, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, REPRESENTS THAT IT IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY FOR INVESTMENT AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO ANY
SALE OR DISTRIBUTION HEREOF. ANY TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE OR ANY LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY INTEREST REPRESENTED HEREBY IS SUBJECT
TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT (AS DEFINED BELOW).

Certificate Number 001
100% Percentage Interest

Quality Technology Services Richmond
II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"), hereby certifies that Quality Technology Services Holding,
LLC (together with any assignee of this Certificate, the "Holder") is the registered owner of 100 percent of the limited
liability company interests in the Company, The rights, powers, preferences, restrictions and limitations of the limited liability
company interests in the Company are set forth in, and this Certificate and the limited liability company interests in the Company
represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Second Amended and Restated
Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company, dated as December , 2014, as the same may be amended
or restated from time to time (the "Limited Liability Company Agreement"). By acceptance of this Certificate, and as
a condition to being entitled to any rights and/or benefits with respect to the limited liability company interests evidenced hereby,
the Holder is deemed to have agreed to comply with and be bound by all the terms and conditions of the Limited Liability Company
Agreement. The Company will furnish a copy of the Limited Liability Company Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written
request to the Company at its principal place of business. Transfer of any or all of the limited liability company interests in
the Company evidenced by this Certificate is subject to certain restrictions in the Limited Liability Company Agreement and can
be effected only after compliance with all of those restrictions and the presentation to the Company of the Certificate, accompanied
by an assignment in the form appearing on the reverse side of this Certificate, duly completed and executed by and on behalf of
the transferor in such Transfer, and an application for transfer in the form appearing on the reverse side of this Certificate,
duly completed and executed by and on behalf of the transferee in such Transfer.

Each limited liability company interest in the Company shall constitute and shall remain a "security"
within the meaning of, and shall be governed by, (i) Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code (including Section 8-102(a)(15) thereof)
as in effect from time to time in the States of Delaware and New York and (ii) the Uniform Commercial Code of any other applicable
jurisdiction that now or hereafter substantially includes the 1994 revisions to Article 8 thereof as adopted by the American Law
Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February
14, 1995 (and each limited liability company interest in the Company shall be treated as such a "security" for all
purposes, including, without limitation perfection of the security interest therein under Article 8 of each applicable Uniform
Commercial Code).

This Certificate and the limited liability
company interests evidenced hereby shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without
regard to principles of conflicts of laws.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused
this Certificate to be executed as of the date set forth below.

QUALITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES RICHMOND

II, LLC

Dated:

By:

Name: Chad L. Williams

Title: Chief Executive Officer

(REVERSE SIDE OF CERTIFICATE)

ASSIGNMENT OF INTEREST

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby
sells, assigns and transfers unto
(print or typewrite name of transferee),
(insert Social Security or other taxpayer identification number of transferee), the following specified percentage of limited liability
company interests in the Company:
(identify the percentage interest being transferred) effective as of the date specified in the Application for Transfer of Interests
below, and irrevocably constitutes and appoints
and its authorized officers, as attorney-in-fact, to transfer the same on the books and records of the Company, with full power
of substitution in the premises.

Dated:

Signature:

(Transferor)

Address:

APPLICATION FOR TRANSFER OF INTERESTS

The undersigned applicant (the "Applicant")
hereby (a) applies for a transfer of the percentage of limited liability company interests in the Company described above (the
"Transfer") and applies to be admitted to the Company as a substitute member of the Company, (b) agrees to comply with
and be bound by all of the terms and provisions of the Limited Liability Company Agreement, (c) represents that the Transfer complies
with the terms and conditions of the Limited Liability Company Agreement, (d) represents that the Transfer does not violate any
applicable laws and regulations, and (e) agrees to execute and acknowledge such instruments (including, without limitation, a counterpart
of the Limited Liability Company Agreement), in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, as the Company reasonably deems
necessary or desirable to effect the Applicant's admission to the Company as a substitute member of the Company and to confirm
the agreement of the Applicant to be bound by all the terms and provisions of the Limited Liability Company Agreement with respect
to the limited liability company interests in the Company described above. Initially capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise
defined herein are used as defined in the Limited Liability Company Agreement.

The Applicant directs that the foregoing
Transfer and the Applicant's admission to the Company as a Substitute Member shall be effective as of .

Name of Transferee (Print)

Dated:

Signature:

Address:

The Company has determined (a) that the Transfer described
above is permitted by the Limited Liability Company Agreement, (b) hereby agrees to effect such Transfer and the admission of
the Applicant as a substitute member of the Company effective as of the date and time directed above, and (c) agrees to record,
as promptly as possible, in the books and records of the Company the admission of the Applicant as a substitute member.

4

QUALITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES RICHMOND

II, LLC

By:

Name: Chad L. Williams

Title: Chief Executive Officer

5
